# SPDX Tech Team Meeting – 2025-07-15

## Attendees
- Alfred Strauch  
- Arthit Suriyawongkul  
- Bob Martin  
- Dick Brooks  
- Ilan Schifter  
- Joshua Watts  
- Max Huber  
- Nicole Pappler  
- Nisha Kumar  
- Rose Judge  
- Steven Carbno  
- Victor Lu  

---

## Agenda
- Approve previous minutes  
- Prioritize agenda  

### ISO
- RDFs should only use second-level versioning  
  - Issue: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1046  
  - Example: `https://spdx.org/rdf/3.0.1/terms/Core/Element` → `https://spdx.org/rdf/3.0/terms/Core/Element`  
  - Requires updates across documentation, tools, and CI  

- JSON-LD identifiers are not dereferenceable  
  - Issue: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1056  

### 2.3 Issues
- Incorrect cardinality on external document references  
  - Issue: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/812  

- Broken Figure C.1 in Annex C  
  - PR: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1222  

### Logistics for 3.1-rc1
- Create GitHub Milestone “3.1-rc1” in both `spdx-spec` and `spdx-3-model`  
- Update CI/spec-parser to support new namespaces and profiles while retaining compatibility with 3.0  
  - Relevant file: `spec_parser/mkdocs.py`  
  - Issue: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1231  

### Key Technical Questions
- Root element requirement:  
  - Does SPDX 3 require a `Bom` or `Sbom` instance as the root of `SpdxDocument`?  
    - Discussion: https://github.com/spdx/ntia-conformance-checker/issues/268  

### Open PRs and Review Requests
- New Concept: **Software Component**  
  - PR: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1044  
  - Requested attendees for discussion: Alexios, Gary, Bob, Kate, Nicole, Ilan  

- PR #1034 – Needs review (Rose)  
  - https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1034  
  - AI: Kate to review  

- Relationship best practices – creating `Relationship` elements from `Package` to `License`  
  - Issue: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1245  
  - Nisha raised the question  

---

## Notes

### SPDX 3 Root Element
- Conformance guidance requires `Bom` as root, but verifier does not enforce it.
- Documented on issue: https://github.com/spdx/ntia-conformance-checker/issues/268  

### 3.1-rc1 Logistics
- **Milestone Creation**: Kate to create “3.1-rc1” milestone in both repos  
- **CI & Spec-parser Updates**: Art to take first pass, review by Gary  
- Alexios needed for additional help with `spec-parser`  

### Software Component
- Waiting for core stakeholders (Alexios, Gary, Bob, Kate, Nicole, Ilan) to be present before progressing  
- Reference PR: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1044  

### ISO Updates
- Actively seeking a contractor for editorial changes; goal: release this month  
- Rex and Bob to coordinate on converting .pdf to .docx for translation template  

### License Relationship
- Nisha to file a formal issue in `spdx-spec` repo  
- Seeking input from Steve Winslow or Alexios on SPDX 3 package license representation  

### JSON-LD
- Ilan & Victor to follow up via Slack on best practices  

---

## Announcements

### India SBOM Guidance
- CERT-IN: [Technical Guidelines on SBOM, QBOM & CBOM, AIBOM and HBOM (v2.0)](https://www.cert-in.org.in/PDF/TechnicalGuidelines-on-SBOM,QBOM&CBOM,AIBOM_and_HBOM_ver2.0.pdf)  
- SEBI: [FAQ Document](https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/faqfiles/jun-2025/1749647139924.pdf)  

### AI Standards
- **TAIBOM** (UK): Emerging framework — https://aibom.org  
- Discussion includes OpenID and centralized vs decentralized standards  

### Industry Release
- **IBM Risk Atlas Nexus 1.0.0 Ontology**: https://github.com/IBM/risk-atlas-nexus  

---

## Future Meeting Topics
- **Nicole on Safety** – Target: *Aug 5, 2025*  
- **Tooling Demo (Alfred & Steven)** – Target: *Jul 29, 2025*  
