# SPDX Tech Team Meeting | 2026-02-10

## Attendees
* Alexios Zavras
* Alfred Strauch
* Arthit Suriyawongkul
* Bob Martin
* Dick Brooks
* Gary O'Neall
* Greg Shue
* Joshua Watt
* Karen Bennet
* Karsten Klein
* Marc-Etienne Vargenau
* Nicole Pappler
* Steven Carbno
* Ted Gauthier
* Victor Lu

---

## Agenda

1.  **Approval of last week's minutes**
2.  **Announcements**
3.  **FOSDEM updates**
4.  **3.1-rc2 topics**

### Discussion Items
* **SoftwareProfile:** Clarify why name is a mandatory element ([#1334](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1334))
* **ExternalRefType:** Add "bom" ([PR #1201](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1201))
* **spdxId & Namespace:** Add recommendation; awaiting feedback from Max ([PR #1215](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1215))
* **JSON-LD Serialization:** Update element inlining rules / CreationInfo exception ([#1104](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1104))
    * *Will this be extended to NamespaceMap and ExternalMap (import)?*
* **Property Names:** Reuse/Generalize names ([#1207](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1207))
* **CISA Minimum Elements:** Add "known unknown" and "redacted" properties ([#1105](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1105))
* **Component:** Interaction with other profiles ([PR #1044](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1044))
* **JSON-LD:** Recommend putting `NamespaceMap` at root level/beginning of file ([#1339](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1339))
* **ExternalIdentifierType:** Add types for document, person, organization, and location ([PR #1187](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1187))
* **Terms & Definitions:** Add “stakeholder” and “persona” ([PR #1356](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/pull/1356))

### Information Items
* **Compliance Points:** Update for new (3.1) and existing (3.0) profiles ([#1337](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1337))
* **Maintainers:** Add maintainers of new 3.1 profiles ([PR #1216](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1216))
* **3.1-rc1 Feedback:** SBOM Lifecycle, Safety, and Governance Enhancements ([#1354](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1354))

### 3.1 Topics
* **Documentation:** Include derived classes ([#1190](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1190))
    * [PR #184](https://github.com/spdx/spec-parser/pull/184) (Whole subclasses)
    * [PR #201](https://github.com/spdx/spec-parser/pull/201) (Direct subclasses)
* **Media-type:** Allow optional version parameter ([#642](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/642))
* **File Extensions:** SPDX 3 extensions ([#987](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/987))

### Release Readiness
* **Redirections:** Setup RDF and schema URL redirections for 3.1 and ISO 3.0 ([#1249](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1249))
* **Common Core Vocabulary:** Discussion on adoption.
* **Roles:** Modeling/consensus across Safety and other groups.

---

## Notes

### FOSDEM
* **Scale:** Large event with ~8,000 attendees.
* **Compliance Tools Event:** Held the Friday before FOSDEM; featured many tools. Alexios to share minutes link when available.
* **Themes:** Regulation compliance and the Cyber Resilience Act (CRA).
* **SBOM Devroom:** Full-day track with 22–25 presentations. The 220-seat room was frequently at capacity.
* **Recordings:** All talks recorded; most are published, the rest pending.
* **Community Feedback:** * Documentation remains a hurdle; the spec is perceived as complex.
    * High demand for more examples, use-case guides, and better tool interoperability.
* **CISA Minimum Elements:** Victoria noted that feedback is being processed and an update will be published.
* **General Sentiment:** SPDX is becoming complex; there is a strong desire for more automated tools.

### Issues / PRs
* **SoftwareProfile ([#1334](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/issues/1334)):** Confirmed names are mandatory for files and packages.
* **ExternalRefType ([PR #1201](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1201)):** Approved and merged.
* **spdxId & Namespace ([PR #1215](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/pull/1215)):** Postponed until Max is present. Joshua is updating `shacl2code` for implementation support.
* **JSON-LD Inlining ([#1104](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1104)):** Likely removing lines 38-41 in `jsonld.md` to allow non-Elements to be inlined optionally.
* **Property Names ([#1207](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1207)):** * `startTime`/`endTime` are acceptable.
    * `requirementStatement` is distinct from `statement`.
    * "Rationale" will be moved to Core for reuse.
    * Property `...Timestamp` will be renamed to `...Time` for consistency.

---

## Backlog
The full backlog can be viewed in the [Google Doc Backlog Tab](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NdHYU_VZtLacD4bEmf2GiUVRTbrcev1beaJpq8s8-pU/edit?tab=t.4wfxhy2gdx3y).
